DOCS-12824-http-about-kt (#1735)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: http/1.6/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Select]

Anypoint Connector for HTTP (HTTP Connector) enables you to declare HTTP servers that listen to
requests and trigger flows, as well as HTTP clients that can communicate with any HTTP service. Additionally, the connector enables you to both expose and consume HTTP-based APIs. For example, APIkit and RESTConnect both use HTTP Connector internally to work with APIs.

HTTP Connector also supports HTTPS (TLS) connectivity, provides easy ways to serve static

> resources and secure servers, and handles client authentication schemes.

Reviewer: which provides easy ways

> resources and secure servers, and handles client authentication schemes.

Reviewer: which provides...

For information about compatibility and fixed issues, see the HTTP Connector Release Notes.

== Prerequisites

To use this connector, you must be familiar with:

* Anypoint Connectors
* Mule runtime engine (Mule)
* Elements and global elements in a Mule flow
* How to create a Mule app using Anypoint Studio

Before creating an app, you must have access to Anypoint Platform and Anypoint Studio

== HTTP Servers

> HTTP servers expose services for users or applications to consume. These servers receive data in the form of requests and return a response. The HTTP *Listener* source triggers flows when a request is received and responds after the flow finishes.

Reviewer: These servers receive data in the form of requests and return corresponding responses
or
Each server receives data in the form of a request and returns a corresponding response

> You declare an HTTP server by defining the listener source connection. This connection defines the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Declare an HTTP server by defining the listener source connection. This connection defines the
```

host and port where requests are received.

> The following example shows an HTTP *Listener* source connection XML configuration:

Reviewer: shows
```suggestion
The following example shows an XML example for an HTTP *Listener* source connection:
```

</http:listener-config>
----

> The connection configuration is `serverConfig`, which listens to a localhost address (IP address `127.0.0.1`) and on port `8081`. After you set up a server in Anypoint Studio or Design Center, you can access this server at the `+http://localhost:8081+` URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The connection configuration is `serverConfig`, which listens to a localhost address (IP address `127.0.0.1`) on port `8081`. After you set up a server in Anypoint Studio or Design Center, you can access this server at the `+http://localhost:8081+` URL.
```

To fully configure your server, specify resource paths to execute a flow so that when a request matching that path is received, Mule runtime engine (Mule) runs your flow.

> The following example shows two HTTP *Listener* sources XML configuration in different flows that execute depending on the path triggered:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows the XML configuration for two HTTP *Listener* sources in different flows that execute depending on the path triggered:
```

</flow>
----

> Both listener sources use the connection configuration `serverConfig` declared in the first example. If the HTTP *Listener* source is triggered with `+http://localhost:8081/greet+`, the connector returns `Hello, world!`. Although, when the source is triggered with `+http://localhost:8081/exit+`, the connector returns `Goodbye, world!`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both listener sources use the connection configuration `serverConfig` declared in the first example. If the HTTP *Listener* source is triggered with `+http://localhost:8081/greet+`, the connector returns `Hello, world!`. If the source is triggered with `+http://localhost:8081/exit+`, the connector returns `Goodbye, world!`.
```

> The received HTTP request data is shared with the flow when executed. You can also customize HTTP responses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The received HTTP request data is shared with the flow when executed. You can customize the  HTTP responses.
```

> The following example shows an HTTP *Listener* source XML configuration that customizes the body of the HTTP responses:

Reviewer: Suggestion:
...an XML configuration for an HTTP *Listener* source

</flow>
----

If the HTTP *Listener* source is triggered with `+http://localhost:8081/greet?name=Ana+`, the connector

> returns `Hello, Ana! I am an HTTP server.`.  Although, when the source is triggered with `+http://localhost:8081/greet+`, the connector returns `Hello, world! I am an HTTP server.`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
returns `Hello, Ana! I am an HTTP server.`. When the source is triggered with `+http://localhost:8081/greet+`, the connector returns `Hello, world! I am an HTTP server.`.
```

> returns `Hello, Ana! I am an HTTP server.`.  Although, when the source is triggered with `+http://localhost:8081/greet+`, the connector returns `Hello, world! I am an HTTP server.`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
returns `Hello, Ana! I am an HTTP server.`.  If the source is triggered with `+http://localhost:8081/greet+`, the connector returns `Hello, world! I am an HTTP server.`.
```

> To get further information on the HTTP *Listener* source, refer to the xref:http-listener-ref.adoc[Configure an HTTP Listener source] documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about the HTTP *Listener* source, refer to the xref:http-listener-ref.adoc[Configure an HTTP Listener source] documentation.
```

== HTTP Clients

> HTTP clients enable you to send requests to HTTP services and manage their responses. The HTTP *Request* operation executes HTTP requests and returns the answer.

Reviewer: Tense agreement > "their responses" matches with "answers." Maybe say "returns the corresponding answers."

> HTTP clients don't necessarily need to be declared, though declare them to reuse configurations. If you don't declare an HTTP client, specify the entire URL each time you want to send a request. Although, this configuration is useful for quick requests. If you do several requests on different

Reviewer: Suggestion: Although you don't need to declare HTTP clients, declaring them enables you to reuse configurations. If you don't declare an HTTP client, specify the entire URL each time you want to send a request to that URL. Also, if you make several requests on different API resources, declare the client to which the host connects.

> API resources, declare the client specifying the host to connect to.

Reviewer: Should "client" in the previous sentence be "clients" instead of "client"?

</http:request-config>
----

The HTTP request configuration is `clientConfig`, and sends requests to `localhost` and port `8081`.

> To perform requests, each operation you use must include the path where the request goes. The following example shows two HTTP *Request* operations with different paths:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To perform requests, each operation must include the path of the request target. The following example shows two HTTP *Request* operations with different paths:
```

> To perform requests, each operation you use must include the path where the request goes. The following example shows two HTTP *Request* operations with different paths:

Reviewer: Same edit as before

</flow>
----

The service exposed is consumed by sending requests to `greet` and `exit`, and when the flow executes, it displays:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
Hello, world! I am an HTTP server.
Goodbye, world!
----

> You can customize HTTP requests, to share the response data with the flow. The following example shows an HTTP *Request* operation XML configuration that customizes the request sent with query parameters and uses the received HTTP response status:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize HTTP requests to share the response data with the flow. The following example shows an HTTP *Request* operation XML configuration that customizes the request sent with query parameters and uses the received HTTP response status:
```

</flow>
----

When the flow executes, it displays:

[source,xml]
----
Received a 200 response with body: {Hello, HTTP client! I am an HTTP server.}
----

> To get further information on the HTTP *Request* operation, refer to xref:http-request-ref.adoc[Configure HTTP Request operation] documentation.

Reviewer: Same edit as before
